Classic Bouillabaisse with Rouille-Topped Croutons
Rouille:
 cup chopped bottled roasted red bell peppers
3 tablespoons reduced-fat mayonnaise
Croutons:
4 ounces sourdough bread baguette, cut diagonally into 6 slices
1  garlic clove, halved
Bouillabaisse:
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 cup chopped onion (about 1 medium)
2  garlic cloves, minced
¾ cup chopped plum tomato (about 2)
½ teaspoon saffron threads, lightly crushed
3½ cups (3/4-inch) cubed red potato (about 1 pound)
2½ cups thinly sliced fennel bulb (about 8 ounces)
3 cups clam juice
1  (14-ounce) can fat-free, less-sodium chicken broth
24  littleneck clams
24  mussels, scrubbed and debearded
12 ounces large shrimp, peeled and deveined
1  (1-pound) red snapper fillet, cut into 12 (2-inch) pieces
6 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley
Preheat oven to 400°.
To prepare rouille, combine roasted red bell peppers and mayonnaise in a blender or food processor; process until smooth. Set aside.
To prepare the croutons, arrange baguette slices in a single layer on a baking sheet; bake slices at 400° for 8 minutes or until toasted. Rub one side of each crouton with cut side of garlic clove halves; discard garlic clove halves. Set croutons aside.
To prepare bouillabaisse, heat oil in a large Dutch oven over medium heat. Add onion and garlic to pan; cook 8 minutes or until tender. Add tomato; cook 3 minutes. Add saffron; cook 30 seconds. Add potato, fennel, clam juice, and broth; bring to a boil. Cover, reduce heat, and simmer 10 minutes or until potato is almost done. Increase heat to medium. Add clams; cover and simmer 5 minutes. Add mussels; cover and simmer 3 minutes. Add shrimp and fish; cover and simmer 5 minutes or until shells open, shrimp is done, and fish flakes easily with a fork or until desired degree of doneness. Discard any unopened shells.
Ladle 2 cups seafood mixture into each of 6 shallow bowls. Spread each crouton with about 1 tablespoon rouille. Place 1 crouton on top of each bowl; sprinkle each serving with 1 tablespoon parsley.
