Fresh Herb and Tofu Curry
14  to 16 oz. firm tofu
1 teaspoon salt
2  to 3 tbsp. canola oil
½ cup thinly sliced shallots
1  large garlic clove, finely chopped
6  to 8 fresh curry leaves (optional)*
1½ teaspoons curry powder, preferably Madras
1  can (13.5 oz.) coconut milk
½ cup thinly sliced canned bamboo shoots, drained and rinsed
2  to 3 tsp. packed shaved light palm sugar* or light brown sugar
4  or 5 small heads baby bok choy (Shanghai bok choy), cut crosswise into 1-in. pieces
1 teaspoon Thai or Vietnamese fish sauce
½ cup coarsely chopped fresh herbs, such as mint, cilantro, Thai basil, or Vietnamese coriander (rau ram)
Cut tofu into 16 rectangles shaped like husky dominoes (each about 1 in. wide, 1 1/2 in. long, and 1 in. thick). Put tofu in a wide, shallow bowl. Mix 1 tsp. salt with 2 cups very hot or just-boiled water and pour over tofu to just cover. Let sit 15 minutes. Transfer tofu to a double layer of paper towels set on a plate and let drain 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, heat 2 tbsp. oil in a medium nonstick frying pan over medium heat. Fry shallots, stirring occasionally, until light golden, 9 to 10 minutes. Add garlic and curry leaves and fry 2 to 3 minutes, stirring constantly, until light and crisp. Add curry powder, remove from heat, and stir to aromatize spices. Using a slotted spoon or skimmer, transfer seasonings to a bowl, leaving most of fragrant oil in pan.
Blot tofu dry. Add more oil to pan, if needed, to film bottom and heat to medium-high. Fry tofu, turning once, until golden, 4 to 5 minutes (it won't be crisp).
Lower heat slightly and return all but 1 tbsp. shallot mixture to pan. Add coconut milk, bamboo shoots, and palm sugar. Bring to a simmer and cook 2 to 3 minutes. Add bok choy and cook until tender, 3 to 5 minutes. Gently stir in fish sauce.
Transfer to a serving bowl and top with herbs and rest of shallots. Serve with rice.
*Find curry leaves at Indian markets. Palm sugara dark unrefined sugar made from palm-tree sap or sugarcane juicehas a musky, slightly molasses-like flavor. It usually comes in hard discs; slice off shavings with a sharp knife before measuring. Find it at well-stocked grocery stores and Asian or Latino markets (in Indian markets, it's called jaggery, and in Latino markets, piloncillo).
