Squash-Stuffed Cannelloni with Roasted-Shallot Sauce and Hazelnuts
Filling:
10 cup (1/2-inch) cubed butternut squash (about 4 pounds)
¼ cup chopped shallots
2 tablespoons chopped fresh sage
Cooking spray
1 tablespoon butter, melted
½ cup fat-free sour cream
¼ cup half-and-half
¼ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
Sauce:
3  slices applewood smoked bacon, chopped
½ pound shallots, peeled and halved
2  garlic cloves, crushed
½ cup dry white wine
1  (14-ounce) can fat-free, less-sodium chicken broth
2 tablespoons half-and-half
¼ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
Remaining ingredients:
16  cooked lasagna noodles
¾ cup (3 ounces) shredded fontina cheese
¼ cup chopped blanched hazelnuts, toasted
Preheat oven to 400°.
To prepare filling, combine first 3 ingredients on a jelly roll pan coated with cooking spray. Drizzle with butter; toss to coat. Bake at 400° for 25 minutes or until lightly browned, stirring occasionally. Place squash mixture in a large bowl; mash with a potato masher. Stir in sour cream, 1/4 cup half-and-half, 1/4 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper.
To prepare sauce, cook bacon in a Dutch oven over medium-high heat until crisp. Remove bacon from pan, reserving 2 teaspoons drippings in pan; set bacon aside. Add 1/2 pound shallots and garlic to drippings in pan; sauté 5 minutes or until browned. Bake at 400° for 25 minutes, stirring occasionally. Place pan on stovetop over medium-high heat. Add wine, scraping pan to loosen browned bits. Add broth; bring to a boil. Reduce heat; simmer 5 minutes. Remove from heat; stir in 2 tablespoons half-and-half, 1/4 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper.
Spread 1/4 cup filling over each noodle, leaving a 1/2-inch border on each short end. Beginning with a short end, roll up noodles jelly-roll fashion. Place rolls, seam sides down, in a 13 x 9-inch baking pan coated with cooking spray. Pour sauce over noodles; sprinkle evenly with cheese. Bake at 400° for 25 minutes or until cheese is golden. Sprinkle with bacon and hazelnuts.
