Copycat Doritos Locos Tacos
For the Cool Ranch shells
1 tablespoon tomato powder
1 tablespoon buttermilk powder
1 teaspoon onion powder
¾ teaspoon sugar
¾ teaspoon garlic powder
½ teaspoon cheese powder
½  (1-oz.) package ranch dressing mix
6  crunchy taco shells
1 tablespoon canola oil
For the Nacho Cheese shells
1½ tablespoons cheese powder
½ tablespoon buttermilk powder
1 teaspoon dehydrated sweet bell pepper (such as Zatarain's brand)
¾ teaspoon cheesy taco seasoning mix (such as McCormick brand)
¾ teaspoon onion powder
¾ teaspoon tomato powder
½ teaspoon sugar
½ teaspoon garlic powder
6  crunchy taco shells
1 tablespoon canola oil
For the taco filling
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon chili powder
2 teaspoons onion powder
1½ teaspoons paprika
1½ teaspoons salt
½ teaspoon sugar
½ teaspoon garlic powder
¼ teaspoon ground red pepper
¼ teaspoon turmeric
¼ cup beef stock
1 teaspoon canola oil
1½ pounds 85% lean ground beef
1 tablespoons cheesy taco seasoning mix (such as McCormick brand)
1 cup sour cream
1¼ cups shredded lettuce
1 cup diced tomato
1 cup shredded cheddar cheese
To make the Cool Ranch shells, preheat oven to 325°.
Place tomato powder and next 6 ingredients (through ranch mix) in the bowl of a food processor; pulse until well combined. Transfer spice mixture to a medium bowl. Working 1 taco shell at a time, brush the exterior of the taco shells with canola oil using a pastry brush; sprinkle the exterior of each shell evenly with the tomato powder mixture, tapping against the side of the bowl to remove any excess. As you finish coating each shell, arrange in a single layer on a large rimmed baking sheet.
To make the Nacho Cheese shells, place cheese powder and next 7 ingredients (through garlic powder) in the bowl of a food processor; pulse until dehydrated bell pepper is ground and all ingredients are well combined. Working 1 taco shell at a time, brush the exterior of the taco shells with canola oil using a pastry brush; sprinkle the exterior of each shell evenly with the tomato powder mixture, tapping against the side of the bowl to remove any excess. As you finish coating each shell, arrange in a single layer on the same large rimmed baking sheet with the Cool Ranch shells.
Bake the Cool Ranch and Nacho Cheese shells at 325° for 1 to 2 minutes on each side, or until lightly toasted.
To make the taco filling, whisk together flour and next 8 ingredients in a medium bowl. Whisk in beef stock; set mixture aside.
Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add beef to pan; cook the beef, stirring and chopping with a wooden spoon to break it up, until the beef begins to brown, about 3 to 4 minutes. Increase heat and stir in beef stock mixture; cook 1 minute. Stir in cheesy taco seasoning; cook stirring often until beef is cooked through and liquid has thickened. Remove from heat.
To assemble tacos, spoon ¼ cup beef mixture into each of the 12 shells; top meat evenly with sour cream. Evenly layer lettuce, tomato, and cheese onto each taco.
