Black Bean and Sweet Potato Tamales with Tomatillo Sauce
24  dried cornhusks
Filling:
1  (1-pound) sweet potato
2 teaspoons extra-virgin olive oil
1 cup chopped onion
1 teaspoon ground cumin
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
1  (15-ounce) can black beans, rinsed and drained
1  (4-ounce) can chopped green chiles, drained
1¼ cups (5 ounces) preshredded reduced-fat Mexican cheese blend
¼ cup chopped fresh cilantro
Masa dough:
2 cups organic vegetable broth
1½ cups frozen corn kernels, thawed
3¾ cups masa harina
1½ teaspoons baking powder
¼ teaspoon salt
¼ cup butter, melted
Tomatillo sauce:
2 teaspoons extra-virgin olive oil
1 cup chopped onion
1  jalapeño pepper, seeded and chopped
3  garlic cloves, minced
1 pound fresh tomatillos, husked and rinsed (about 8)
 cup organic vegetable broth
2 tablespoons chopped fresh oregano
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon chipotle chile powder
¼ teaspoon salt
½ cup cilantro leaves
Place corn husks in a large bowl; cover with water. Weight husks down with a can; soak 30 minutes. Drain.
Preheat oven to 400°.
To prepare filling, pierce potato with a fork; wrap in foil. Bake at 400° for 1 hour or until tender. Peel potato; mash. Heat 2 teaspoons oil in a skillet over medium-high heat. Add 1 cup onion; sauté 4 minutes. Add 1 teaspoon cumin and cinnamon; sauté 30 seconds. Add beans and green chiles; sauté 2 minutes. Remove from heat. Combine potato, bean mixture, cheese, and chopped cilantro.
Increase oven temperature to 450°.
To prepare masa dough, combine 2 cups broth and corn in a blender; process until smooth.
Lightly spoon masa harina into dry measuring cups; level with a knife. Combine masa harina, baking powder, and salt. Add broth mixture and butter to masa mixture; stir until a soft dough forms. Cover.
To prepare sauce, heat 2 teaspoons oil in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat. Add 1 cup onion, jalapeño, and garlic; sauté 2 minutes. Add tomatillos and next 5 ingredients (through 1/4 teaspoon salt); bring to a boil. Cover, reduce heat, and simmer 10 minutes. Cool slightly.
Place tomatillo mixture and cilantro leaves in a blender. Remove center piece of blender lid (to allow steam to escape); secure blender lid on blender. Place a clean towel over opening in blender lid (to prevent splatters). Blend until smooth.
To assemble, working with 1 husk at a time, place 3 tablespoons masa dough in center of husk about 1/2 inch from top, and press dough into a 4 x 3-inch rectangle. Spoon 2 tablespoons bean mixture down 1 side of dough. Fold husk over tamale, being sure to cover the filling with dough; fold over 1 more time. Fold bottom end of husk under. Place the tamale, seam side down, on the rack of a broiler pan lined with a damp towel. Repeat the procedure with remaining husks, dough, and bean mixture. Cover filled tamales with another damp towel. Pour 2 cups hot water in the bottom of a broiler pan; top with prepared rack.
Steam at 450° for 1 hour, adding water as necessary to maintain a depth of about 1/2 inch. Let stand 10 minutes. Serve with sauce.
