Pork and Ancho Chile Tamales with Mexican Red Sauce
24  dried corn husks
½ cup fat-free, less-sodium chicken broth
 cup dried cherries
1  ancho chile, stemmed
1 cup chopped onion
2 tablespoons brown sugar
3 tablespoons fresh lime juice
1 teaspoon ground cumin
½ teaspoon salt
5  garlic cloves
1  (1-pound) pork tenderloin
Cooking spray
4½ cups Basic Masa Dough
2 cups hot water
1¼ cups Mexican hot-style tomato sauce
Lime wedges (optional)
Place corn husks in a large bowl; cover with water. Weight husks down with a can; soak 30 minutes. Drain husks.
Combine broth, cherries, and ancho chile in a microwave-safe dish. Microwave at HIGH for 2 minutes or until cherries and ancho are tender. Combine broth mixture, onion, and next 5 ingredients (through garlic) in a blender; process until mixture is smooth. Reserve 1/2 cup broth mixture; cover and chill. Place remaining broth mixture in a large zip-top plastic bag. Add pork; seal and marinate in refrigerator 1 hour, turning bag occasionally.
Preheat oven to 450°.
Remove pork from bag, and discard marinade. Place pork on a broiler pan coated with cooking spray. Bake at 450° for 30 minutes or until a thermometer registers 155° (slightly pink). Let pork stand 20 minutes; shred pork with 2 forks. Toss shredded pork with reserved 1/2 cup broth mixture.
Working with one husk at a time, place about 3 tablespoons Basic Masa Dough in the center of husk, about 1/2 inch from top of husk; press dough into a 4-inch-long by 3-inch-wide rectangle. Spoon about 1 heaping tablespoon pork mixture down one side of dough. Using the corn husk as your guide, fold husk over tamale, being sure to cover filling with dough; fold over 1 more time. Fold bottom end of husk under. Place tamale, seam side down, on the rack of a broiler pan lined with a damp towel. Repeat procedure with remaining husks, Basic Masa Dough, and filling. Cover filled tamales with another damp towel. Pour 2 cups hot water in the bottom of a broiler pan; top with prepared rack.
Steam tamales at 450° for 55 minutes, adding water as necessary to maintain a depth of about 1/2 inch. Let tamales stand 10 minutes. Serve with sauce and lime wedges, if desired.
