Posole
2  stemmed seeded dried ancho chiles
2½ cups unsalted chicken stock
2 tablespoons olive oil, divided
2 pounds boneless pork shoulder (Boston butt), cut into 1-inch pieces
1 teaspoon kosher salt, divided
2 cups chopped white onion, divided
6  garlic cloves, minced
1½ teaspoons dried oregano
¾ teaspoon ground coriander
¾ teaspoon ground cumin
1  (14.5-ounce) can unsalted fire-roasted diced tomatoes
2  (15-ounce) cans white hominy, rinsed and drained
Cooking spray
3  (6-inch) corn tortillas, halved and cut into 1/4-inch strips
1 cup thinly sliced radishes
½ cup fresh cilantro leaves
Heat a small skillet over medium heat. Add chiles to pan; cook 1 minute or until toasted, turning occasionally. Place chiles in a medium bowl; add 3 cups boiling water. Let stand 15 minutes. Drain chiles; discard liquid. Place chiles in a blender. Add stock; blend until smooth. Set aside.
Heat a large Dutch oven over medium heat. Add 1 tablespoon oil. Sprinkle pork with 1/2 teaspoon salt. Add half of pork to pan; cook 6 minutes or until browned, turning occasionally. Place browned pork on a plate. Repeat procedure with remaining pork.
Add 1 teaspoon oil to pan. Add 1 1/2 cups onion and garlic; cook 3 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add oregano, coriander, and cumin; cook 30 seconds, stirring constantly. Add reserved chile mixture, tomatoes, pork and accumulated juices, and remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt; bring to a simmer. Reduce heat, and cook, partially covered, 1 hour. Stir in hominy; simmer, partially covered, 20 minutes or until pork is tender.
Preheat oven to 425°.
Coat a baking sheet with cooking spray. Toss tortilla strips with remaining 2 teaspoons oil. Spread strips on prepared baking sheet in a single layer; bake at 425° for 7 minutes or until strips are browned and crisp.
Place 1 cup stew in each of 8 bowls. Top each serving with 2 tablespoons radish and 1 tablespoon cilantro. Top servings with remaining onion and tortilla strips.
Brooklyn Brown Ale ABV 6%
Born in Brooklyn, this American brown ale's roasted malt flavor is the perfect complement for posole's savory browned pork. Its mild hoppiness dances with the lively flavors of radish and cilantro, and its subtle hints of stone fruit and chocolate add a degree of warmth to this quintessential Mexican comfort food.
